About the final project
What is the purpose of the portfolio project?
The primary purpose of an assessment is to check your knowledge and understanding of the key learning objectives of the course you have just completed. Most importantly, assessments help you establish which topics you have mastered and which require further focus before completing the course. Ultimately, the assessment is designed to help you make sure that you can apply what you have learned. This assessment's learning objective is to allow you to create a React application or App.

How do I prepare for the portfolio project?
You will have already encountered exercises, knowledge checks, in-video questions and other assessments as you have progressed through the course.

The final project requires you to complete a portfolio in React. You will be provided with code snippets, and your task is to use these, plus any of your own code to complete your developers' portfolio.

This is a creative project, and the goal is to use as many React concepts as possible within this portfolio. You can use component composition, code reusability, hooks, manage state, interact with an external API, create forms, lists and so on.

You will be provided with code snippets and your task is to use these, plus any of your own code, to complete a portfolio app that contains:

A header with external links to social media accounts and internal links to other sections of the page.

A landing section with an avatar picture and a short bio.

A section to display your featured projects as cards in a grid fashion.

A contact me section with a form to allow visitors to contact you.

Review the final project
You will take part in a peer review exercise in which you will submit your completed portfolio app for two of your peers to review. You will also be required to review two of your peers' portfolio apps.

When you submit your assignment, other learners in the course will review and grade your work. They will be looking at the Portfolio page functionality based on the following criteria:

Did the header have external links that take you to different social apps?

Did the header have internal links that, when clicked, will smoothly scroll into their corresponding section?

Was the landing section filled with an avatar, name and a short bio?

Did the project section display a 2x2 grid with each project rendered in a card widget?

Was the Contact Me form business logic implemented as per the requirements?

Was the header hidden/shown depending on the scroll direction? Did it happen with a smooth transition animation?

Can you suggest any improvements for the portfolio app?

You'll also need to give feedback on and grade the assignments of two other learners using the same criteria.