Question

CSS layouts is all about how the content of your web page is organized. Flexboxes, grids and boxes are all popular CSS layout options. Which of the following statements about CSS layouts are correct? Select all that apply.        


Flexboxes and grids can help create rules for multiple elements.     

Correct
That's correct! Flexboxes and grids can help create rules for multiple elements.     


The display property specifies the type of box you want to use for an HTML element.    

Correct
That's correct! The display property does specify the type of box you can use for an HTML element.    


A flexbox is one-dimensional.     

Correct
That's correct! Flexboxes are one-dimensional. A given flexbox container will lay things out in either a column or a row along its axis.      


A grid is two-dimensional.     

Correct
That's correct! Grids are two-dimensional. A grid creates a two-dimensional grid along both the row and column axes.       



Question

Flexboxes are ideal for creating a:      


Search bar

Correct
Correct! The most common uses of flexbox in CSS are creating a responsive search bar, navigation bar and image gallery.      


Image gallery

Correct
Correct! The most common uses of flexbox in CSS are creating a responsive search bar, navigation bar and image gallery.       


Navigation bar

Correct
Correct! The most common uses of flexbox in CSS are creating a responsive search bar, navigation bar and image galler


CSS grids are responsive, two-dimensional design layouts. Is the following statement true or false? The best way to ensure uniformity of rows and columns when setting grids is to use auto properties and the repeat function together.      

True

Correct
That's correct! Using the repeat function in addition to the auto properties will reduce redundancy and provide ease of code modification.      

Css Selectors
    1. Descendent Selectors
    2. Child Selectors(>)
    3. General Sibling Selectors(~)
    4. Adjacent Sibling Selectors(+)

What is the difference between Adjacent and Sibling combinators?      


Adjacent combinators will only target the first element after the specified elements while Sibling combinators target all elements of the same type that follow the specified element.         

Correct
That's right. They both affect elements that follow a specified element. Adjacent combinators will only target the first element and Sibling combinators target all elements of the same type after the specified element


Psuedo Classes
    :hover
    :active
    :focus

    Form Sudo Classes
        :valid and :invalid
        :checked and indeterminate
        :disabled and enabled
    List Sudo Classes
        :first-type
        :last-of-type
        :nth-of-type()
        :nth-last-of-type()

    Web-links-states
        LVHA(:link, :visited, :hover, :active)
     Developers use the acronym LVHA to remind them of the order that they need to follow when writing pseudo-class rules. LVHA stands for link, visited, hover, active.   


     CSS EFFECTS
     The formal definition of the word effect is a change that is a result or consequence of an action or other cause.
     
     Animations
     Animations are a type of effect that has brought life like quality to web pages and today they are an all pervasive part of web development.

     GIF(Graphics Interchange Format) etc...

     Text Effects:
    
     Transform and Transition
        Transform: add Animations
        Transition: handle the speed of animation
    
    CSS Animations and KEY FRAMES
        When developers want to create complex animations, they use the animation property. But to control the execution of the steps of the animation they use the at-keyframe rule.       