Exercise: Create a persona
Overview
In this exercise, you will create a persona for the Little Lemon online booking using the template provided and empathize with this persona as a user. 

A persona is a fictitious yet realistic portrayal of your brand's typical customer. Effective personas aren't just vague outlines; they describe these fictional customers as if they are real people, with a name, a career, motivations, goals and problems.

Scenario
After researching the types of customers that order food online, the findings reveal that time constraints are a driving factor in why customers choose this method. With this scenario in mind, create a persona by using the steps below to fill in the blanks of the attached template.

Step 1:  Name
The first step is to name your persona. Because the persona represents your primary customer, you should refer to them as a natural person with real feelings and behaviors that you can empathize with while making designs and future decisions. Naming your persona adds a human element.

Step 2: Image
The next step is image selection. When selecting an image, keep in mind that it should be a real person that effectively represents your target customer. Do not use a celebrity or cartoon.  You rather want to use someone that realistically represents the age, gender and personality of your persona.

Step 3: Description 
In step three, you will describe the persona by summarizing essential characteristics like age, gender, job and technical ability. Describing your persona in this way will help create a more cohesive and realistic backstory."

Step 4:  Quote
Next, include a quote for your persona. This should be a quick snapshot of the persona's personality or something important to them. Remember, the goal is to create a persona that team members can empathize with, so this quote should further humanize your fictitious customer.

Step 5:  Bio 
Everyone appreciates a good backstory. Give your persona some context. Where do they live? What do they do in their spare time? Include some details that help make them unique. Include information such as where they live, what they like doing, etc.

Step 6: Core needs
Next, you should outline your persona’s core needs. It is essential to understand their aspirations since you want your product or service to fit those needs. For example, Tilly is a busy professional who needs to find time to organize her life around her work. 

Step 7: Frustrations
In the final step, you will attempt to understand your persona's pain points. What things frustrate your persona? Do they hate doing busy work or routine tasks? Once you understand their frustrations, you can solve them and build better products that fit their needs.

      Placeholder for empty Reading