Learn about what constitutes successful UI and evaluate existing interfaces for design consistency and quality.
Learning Objectives
Define the purpose and goals of user experience design.
Define the purpose and goals of user interface design.
Set up a Figma account.
Navigate the Figma interface.
Recognize common empathy methodolgies and tools.
Create a user persona in Figma.

What is UX?
    UX means user experience. It includes everything related to all the interactions that a user has with a company, its services and products.

UX goals + Quality components
    Usability
        Usability gauges how intuitive or easier product is to use

         Five usability components. They are, 
            1. Learnability, 
            2. Efficiency, 
            3. Memorability, 
            4. Errors, and 
            5. Satisfaction.

Question

You are redesigning the Little Lemon website and you want to make sure that you prevent users from doing things they shouldn’t. And if they end up making a mistake, you want users to be able to fix it easily. Which UX usability component is best described above? 

Errors

Correct
That’s right. Good usability tries to prevent errors from happening and provide an easy way of fixing mistakes.  


Overview of the UX process
    UX is a very process driven discipline. 
    The five stages of the UX process are 
    1. Empathize, 
    2. Define 
    3. Ideate 
    4. Prototype and 
    5. Test. 


What is UI?
     A graphical user interface or GUI presents interactive visual components people can interact with on-screen to communicate with technology. For consistency, we refer to it as a UI. 


Question

Which of the following is part of the UI of a digital product? Select all that apply.   


The colors

Correct
Yes. The colors are part of the UI.  


What happens when you click something  

Correct
Yes. What response you get when you click something is part of the UI.  


The icons

Correct
Yes. The icons are part of the UI.  


How information is laid out   

Correct
Yes. How information is laid out is part of the UI.  


The text

Correct
Yes. The text is part of the UI.


User-centered design
    User research
     Users who gave their consent to be interviewed and observed while they were using it. This information gathering is called user research.


Question
Does a customer journey map show the steps someone takes to complete a task?  
Yes
Correct
It presents the steps someone takes to complete a given task. It can also identify their emotions along the steps as you track the UX Goals.   


Question
Is the persona a real person?  

No

Correct
The user persona is a fictional character profile that represents the main clientele of a company. It's a realistic model of the people you are seeking to assist.  