Exercise: Heuristic evaluation
Overview
In this exercise, you will carry out an abridged version of a heuristic evaluation using Jakob Nielsen’s 10 Usability Heuristics for User Interface Design. The attached template is a guide that will assist you in determining how user-friendly the site is. You can choose any website you wish to evaluate.

The goal of this template is not to provide you with a specific diagnosis for the website you choose to evaluate but to assist you in identifying areas to focus on to improve the user experience.

Simply put, the goal is to help you identify problems with the site that may make it difficult for users to find information, complete tasks and effectively use the site.

Step 1 
Open the Excel sheet called Heuristics Template. Click on Template 1 at the bottom of the Excel sheet. In Template 1, all the heuristics are listed with their relevant definitions. Start by selecting the usability problems under the relevant heuristics it violates. Then assign a severity rating of none, cosmetic, minor, major or catastrophic to each problem. 

Severity Ratings
S0: It violates a heuristic but does not appear to be a usability issue.

S1: Users may easily overcome cosmetic usability issues or occur infrequently. Unless extra time is available, it does not need to be fixed for the next release.

S2: Minor usability problems may occur more frequently or be more challenging to overcome. Fixing this should be given low priority for the next release.

S3: Major usability problem occurs frequently and persistently or users may be unable or unaware of how to fix the problem. It is essential to fix, so it should be given high priority.

S4: Usability catastrophe seriously impairs the use of the product and cannot be overcome by users. It is imperative to fix this before the product can be released.

Step 2
Click on Template 2 at the bottom of the Excel sheet. All the heuristics are mentioned and what each means in template 2. Describe the problem you encounter and assign an easy-to-fix rating to each problem, which is maximum, considerable, concentrated, easy or trivial. 

Easy to Fix Rating:  
E0: Fix will require maximum effort, including more investigation into the proper solution. 

E1: Fix will require considerable effort, but the issue and solution are understood. 

E2: Fix will require a more concentrated effort, but the issue and solution are understood. 

E3: A single developer with minor effort can quickly complete fix. 

E4: Fix is trivial and easy to implement.